---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Open Source in a wider scope and Jarvis Wrap-Up
---
This week, we had a class discussion on open source in business and made some progress with Jarvis
<!--more-->
### Open Source in Different Areas
Although I wasn't in class during Monday due to an incomplete final from last semester, I talked with my groupmates about the topic covered, which were the applications of Open Source as a whole, and not only in technology. I am returning to Amazon as a software engineer in Project Kuiper following graduation. Project Kuiper is Amazon's upcoming sattelite organization to rival Starlink. Growing up, I've always been interested in space, and this got me thinking how the future of space can be affected by Open Source. Right now, everything regarding this area is so new and only a few highly funded companies can make developments and create change, so I highly doubt there will be any new Open Source aspects, but its fun to think what will happen down the line. Maybe there could be an open source initiative to make parts LEO software public so that masses can not only learn, but also contribute.

### Jarvis
This week was mainly going over what we have done over the semester and agreeing on the last changes and additions we will do with Jarvis prior to presentations this upcoming Wednesday. We agreed to add some plugins which is realistic within the time span left, but we still feel upset that there are countless existing bugs we found that can't be solved in time. Therefore, we decided the next best thing we could do is report them to the community. Furthermore, multiple PRs we had were accepted, which is great news. The last thing I want to finish implementing is a cryptotracker, and my group mate Diana had just finished up coding a text converter plugin. Along with my group mate, I noticed that development in different Operating Systems is extremely difficult, and so maybe we can leave off on that note, giving advice to the larger community regarding the macro future of Jarvis. 
