---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - FreeDOS and  group work
---
During day 1, we listened to a talk by FreeDos founder Jim Hall, and one day 2, we made some good progress on our group project.
<!--more-->
### Jim Hall and OpenDos

When the Professor first asked us if we knew what DOS meant, I immediately assumed she meant Denial Of Service, and I realized later on that a lot of my classmates did as well. I remember DOS and DDOS from my high school minecraft days. Back to the topic, I was suprised by how kind Jim seemed to be. My first thought was, what is the point of FreeDOS? As it seemed to be an open source project that was mainly meant to do things like run legacy software and play DOS games, as it says on the website. I liked Jim's discussion of starting the project and how his code was bad in the beginning (self-addmittedly), so that definition gives us some hope! I also really enjoyed his discussion of the conversion to 64 bit, as a question I had (which I asked) was what the future of open source will look like as we convert to more modern artchitectures. Overall, I really enjoyed his talk and it really brings into light the history of what it was like back in the day with his story of microsoft and DOS. I hope that one day I can be as passionate about a project like Jim is about FreeDos.

### Jarvis
This week, we ended up getting a lot of work done with Jarvis. A lot of it consisted of finding problems within Jarvis itself. First of all, we realized that the installation instructions require a lot of work, especially for windows users. The current instructions contain two sentences, which it took a while for us to figure out. Secondly, we noticed a huge amount of the the commands didn't work because the API keys weren't set up properly, such as the weather command. Other commands literally spit out a message that said "create an issue report", so that is definitely a great starting point. Our plan is to split up some of the main commands which we consider useful within us 4 and investigate which ones are worth looking into first, and which are relatively easily fixable. Another thing worth noting is that we realized a lot of the reccomended packages are actually required in order to run a lot of the commands, which should be something worth noting in the beginning we believe. After this, we will look into API's that we want to add. Furthermore, considering the actual commands, I believe its worth sorting them because some of the useful ones should be seperate from fun ones like card games, etc. Lots of work to be done regarding bug fixing, idea generation, and also organization.
