---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - First Week of Project
---

This week was particularily interesting because we were given our groupmates and the time to actually get to know one another and choose a project to contribute to 


<!--more-->

### Choosing a Project
I was told I was arbitrarily added to this group because I had no common projects with others from the survey. However, I am very happy I was put in this group as we were all in agreement of the type of contributions we want to make. Most of us had basically no experience in front end development, so we were all in agreement to stick to something along the lines of Python/Java. At first, we started to look at humanitarian projects because we wanted to choose a project that made a good impact on the world. But it was a huge dissapointment because we quickly realized that basically all of the humanitarian projects we analyzed as well as the ones on the class list were mainly written in front end languages like CSS/HTML/Javascript/PHP/etc. While doing this, we definitely found some really cool aspects of GitHub, such as many projects having a label on issues tagged as “good for beginners”, “5 minute fix”, or something along those lines. Once we expanded our horizons beyond humanitarian projects, we ran into this project called Jarvis, which is a personal assistant for linux (including Mac) and windows that runs on the terminal. We agreed that this was a project that had a lot of potential for contributions and the latest commits were recent enough that there would be an active enough community.

### Jarvis
What we liked about Jarvis is that it is basically “open ended”, meaning its potential features expands as far as our minds go. We were quick to come up with some great ideas There is a video that was uploaded by the creator 5 years ago to showcase Jarvis, but it was not very up to date with the current features, so I did some personal experimenting with Jarvis on my own. One of the initial things we thought of was to simply make the UI better and more user friendly by adding more visual features and functionalities. Jarvis has plenty of attributes, but something we thought of on the first day was that connecting some APIs to Jarvis would be a very good beginner contribution that would likely have a big impact. Some APIs we thought of would be Google Translate to add a translation feature, and a flight tracking feature to track flights. There is a bunch of useful APIs out there that we can add so I think that is a great starting point.  

### Plans moving forward
We agreed to meet online every Friday to discuss what features we want to do/are working on and what to collaborate on. Discord is also a useful space for us to discuss major issues we are running into. Besides the APIs, I wanted to spend some time to get to know the code and also reach out to the creator, who is a oracle dev, to let him know about our scenario in this class. Furthermore, it is definitely worth looking into the current issues to see if there are any fixes we can get involved with immediately to get some contributions done as well as make ourselves known within the Jarvis development group.



