---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - The Internet Archive
---

During Week 5, we were albe to hear Mek Karpeles talk about the wonders of open source software as well as his work, which was extremely interesting. I find it almost noble how Mek is devoting his time and career to a good cause, which is to essentially convert all print to digital access. But more than the mission, I feel that Open Library's intentions are much more important-to spread open source impact and create an environment to contain everything in the area of texts. Normally, my friends and I all had a commmon goal getting into computer science-to get into FAANG and break into the big-tech industry, which is mostly all closed software. However, from what I have learned in this class, I understand the mission of open source much better, and it is very honorable how Mek and others like him are devoting themselves towards a genuine goal like this rather than just chase wealth. 

Even though this is his job, you can tell how genuine he is when he expresses his passion and devotion to the project. The notion they have of almost Cataloging our time period is very cool, because looking back, we have texts from the last couple centuries, but it is limited beyond that-with materials like Open Library, I wonder what people in future generations will back and think of the texts of our time; it is almost like freezing a point in time to see what people were interested in and writing about. 

Regarding my OSM contributions, I scouted out a few new locations in my home in New Jersey that haven't been marked yet, but I had not oficially marked it down yet due to being unsure at first. However, I now realize that any contribution, no matter how insignificant, is getting closer to a larger goal. Reading around a certain wikipedia page, I found a small piece of information which I know to be definitely incorrect, so I look forward to correcting and contributing to that,
