---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---


Disclaimer : I joined the class following week 2, so this blog post will cover all the material from the start-it will be categorized week by week

Week 1:

I signed up for this course in order to not only gain a better understanding of open source, but also the need for it and the ways in which it can contribute to the forward movement of software/computer science as a whole. During my time at AWS, where we worked on all private software, I wondered why any major corporation would make their source code public (like PyTorch and Tensorflow). The major lessons I learned is that Open Source isn't just a category of software, but it is a whole movement backed by the philosophy that software should be free and filled with a community of contributors working towards a common goal.

I do believe, however, that there are indeed downsides to open source, and there is a place for open source, but it is not always. Obviously major corportations that are profitting off of their software should have closed source software, but there are some downsides beyond these scenarios which I thought of. For example, running a large open source project is similar to operating an organization-theres always going to be issues and hitting heads on which direction the software should move towards-politics always shows up. Aditionally, there could be a wide variety of coding and design styles on a large scale project even though there is an agreed upon system.

Overall, I definitely do believe Open Source Software brings on more good than harm-it gives a community infinite potential to create and collaborate on software which will be substantial for centuries to come.

Week 2:

The Go programming language (which I had no idea was open source) had a very neat code of conducts page. It goes over the values (such as being respectful, thoughtful, charitable, responsible, constructive, etc). I absolutely agree with the values that they provide, but part of me feels like this should apply to all open source projects and shouldn't have to be written out-instead, it should be part of a common licnese (MIT, etc). 

Seeing that this Code of Conduct is adapted from the Contributor Covenant, the main differences I see are in how Go somewhat expanded every section to give a more detailed and precise view of conduct as well as add an aditiona section for Conflict Resolution. I believe the main point of this was due to software culture for Go specifically. Even though I mentioned this should be part of a standard license, I do acknowledge that every organization/project has their individual values and ways of dealing with certain things, such as conflicts in this example. Eclipse's code of conduct, which is also adapted from Contributor Covenant, is different in some ways. Eclipse has a higher set of enforcement and "laws". For example, they give mentions of bad behavior types as well as a no retaliation andammendmants section. Similarily, the Sugar Labs code of conduct is much more plain and less exagerated-it provides more of a general outlook on good values.

Tensorflow, which I chose as my open source project, also has a similar Code of Conduct to Eclipse and mixes in the generality of Sugar Labs. They are more into enforcing rules and punishing violations rather than setting up a good culture.

Week 3:


I really enjoyed working on the gib exercise during class on week 3. Being part of the computer science community, you always hear terms such as fork, commit, push thrown around all the time. I had a vague idea of what each of them did but I wasn't sure for certain until doing this exercise. I realize that Git is truly not something you master by just reading definitions online-it is something that you must use on a daily basis, similar to how you learn a programming language. I had used git a little in the past, but never solidified my understanding of the terms-especially upstreams.

Regarding the firefox extension, I was assigned to group 5, where we worked on an extension that searched up professors on ratemyprofessor specifically for NYU students. Even though this current setup is for NYU students, I feel like it would be easy enough to apply to a larger group of schools (or in fact, any school that is recognized by ratemyprofessor.com). I joined during week 3, so I the project idea was bascially all decided, but I helped with solidifying the HTML code and experimenting with the pop-up bar. We had a groupchat and I was suprised by how efficient our communication was. From what I hear, the biggest difficulty was coming up with the idea, which makes sense.

Week 4:

During this week where we mainly focused on presentations, I was blow away by how good some of the projects were. One project I liked especially was Team 4's Youtube Interface Customizer, which is something that I actually could see myself using on a daily basis. It was great to see the different ideas that people can come up with when they put their heads together. In addition to this, I believe KodeHub's presentation was very well set up. When the Profesor mentioned at the end of the class that we could get in trouble for using something as small as a pokemon emoji, which is copyrighted, it definitely opened up my eyes to how careful we must be when developing software.

I was also very proud of my team's project (and having the projector work with our computer during the first attempt). As I mentioned in the previous week's post, I joined during week 3 so I didn't have much say in the project idea, but we had a really great time discussing the code and presentation-I definitely met some great people. I hadn't interacted with HTML directly in over 4 years, so that was quite a shock but thankfully it was not too bad at all-I somehwat have a newfound respect for front end developers. However, I definitely believe I will stick to C++ and Python for my personal use. But overall, I definitely have a better understanding of Git, which will most definitely be useful down the line during my work following college.
