---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Chrispher Snider Talk and Jarvis Update
---
This week, we had a class discussion on open source in business and made some progress with Jarvis
<!--more-->
### Open Source Business Models and use of Open Source in Business


One of the main points I got from this presentation is that Open Source itself isn't a business model, but there are models that are built around open 
source. Specifically, I read Tom Callaway's article on "musings on open source software business models". It was interesting how even open source based software
companies can offer such a wide variety of service models such as donation, subscription, SaaS, FUD, etc. However, although the company is based around open source, Tom highlights how the main focus of any company should be to provide value to customers, as well as the open source community in this case. Open Core, as discussed in the class presentation is also a intriguing method-keeping the core of the project open source, while keeping addons and improvements proprietary, meaning pay to acquire. I noticed that although not open source, a lot of popular game companies these days are releasing games that are free to play, but have purchasable in game accessories or items. It seems like this is working because games like this, such as Warzone and Fortnite, have been massively successful over the years. I thought another mentioned method, Software Consulting, was rather weird, as in your helping a company implement open source into their operations. There is absolutely nothing wrong with it, but I felt as if it is very specific and niche compared to the other methods discussed. But ofcourse the rest (Saas, donations,subsription models) all make sense and are widely used and understood.

### Jarvis
Unfortunately I was out sick during the day of in class group work, but I was still able to communicate and work with my group for the remainder of the week. There were two issues which we reported, solved, and issued a PR for, which is currently waiting review. We had a small back and forth with another contributor about an issue that had to do with the text color, and making it more read-able. We proposed that we should detect the terminal background color/theme and change the color scheme of Jarvis based on this, but in the end we agreed to change it to a common color, which I believe was Cyan. The back and forth had to do with what the other contributor was working on, but we ended up realizing that there wouldn't be any clashing. Besides fixing a lot of the broken commands, we decided we want to add something ourselves, to really make a personalized impact within Jarvis. Right now we are brainstorming what that should be. One idea we had was to implement an API that kept track of hackathon/code contest, but it already existed apparently. In terms of successes, we are very happy with the issues we've fixed, but our failure is making an API of our own, but I am hopeful that we can get it done before presentations.
