---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Cathedral and Jarvis Updates
---
This week, we had a group discussion about Cathedral and the Bazaar and did stand up reports for the group projects.
<!--more-->
### Cathedral and the Bazaar
I enjoyed learning about the different development types brought up in the text: the cathedral model and the bazaar model. Both of the models have their benefits and downfalls. For example, the Bazaar model is good in how it releases early, often, which gives the ideals of listening to the users to develop better. There's some downfalls to this-what if releasing so often gives a bad public image to the product, making it seem it is often still in development with millions of bugs? And also, how often would a user have to update? What if a new update isn't compatible with a plugin (,etc) of its applications. As many people agreed on, whether to use the Bazaar model often depends on what we are building (maybe it isn't the best approach for software runnning on Project Kuiper's satellites). 

### Jarvis and Other Group Projects
It was great to get up and talk about our project-we received some great questions and definitely got some inspiration from other projects. With Jarvis, we reached out to the creator with no reply, but we soon figured out it was passed onto a group of more active contributors, who were super friendly. One of the developments we did was regarding the scheme of the program. Normally there is some general colors for Jarvis, but we proposed that there is a way to detect the color scheme of the OS, like mac for example, and switch Jarvis's color theme based on that. Furthermore, we sent out some requests to add more clarification to the installation process, which I talked about during our 5 minute report. Right now, all it says is to literally clone the repo and run python installer. It would be extremely helpful to get more info on installation as well as issue resolving regarding installation (we had a lot). For example, one thing we realized, which others mentioned, was that often times, when an API failed to download, it would be asking for Y/N response under the hood, but would never get pushed to console for some reason. The reason for this was because of SSL certs. Beyond this, we continue to look into more issues (which we have a lot of) and are working on new API developments. Overall, it wasa great time hearing developments in peoples' projects like Oppia, Linux, MAPLE, etc.
