---
layout: post
title: Week 10 
---
<!--more-->
### Midterm Reflections
The first part of the week in Open Source was our Midterm reflections, which was remote. I actually enjoyed writing this more than I expected. I was able to actually reflect on what open source is and how my views and knowledge on it have developed in the last 10 weeks. It was great to also write out the progress my group-mates and I have made with Jarvis and elaborate on what makes a great open source project.

### Jarvis Work
I was unfortunately ill and could not make it to class due to a bad fever, however, I still worked on Jarvis throughout the week. Worth noting, we reached out to the project initial creator, but had no response. Thankfully though, there is a large group of "admins", that can approve pull requests, and who we can talk about the project with. More importantly, they are active-the last commit was only 5 days ago. I told my groupmates that if needed, I have a close friend that works at Oracle and he can directly message the Jarvis creator in the future. (Note: Jarvis creator is a current developer at Oracle). I also noticed some people bringing up some installation issues on the github page, which was for macOS this time. The loader keeps going forever, but under the hood, it is actually waiting for a Y/N command without being pushed to the installer page. I believe this is a problem with MacOS Monterey specifically but this requires more investigation on my part. The solution seems to be to get the SSL certs, but this is extremely confusing and messy for a first time user. This will be definitely added to our issue list. Besides this, we have been working on other bugs noted in earlier blog posts as well as interesting APIs to implement within Jarvis.
