---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Chrispher Snider Talk and Jarvis Update
---
This week, we had Christopher Snider guest speak about open source and healthcare, and my group made some impressive milestones with Jarvis
<!--more-->
### Christopher Snider and Tidepool
It's worth noting first of all that I was plesantly suprised by how passionate and involved Snider was about Tidepool. A lot of the open source speakers we have tend to be very enthusiastic but you can tell Snider is on a whole new level due to his personal connection due to diabetes. Monitoring the news over the last couple years, I realized that healthcare is a very sensitive area, especially when you try to mix in software-there is a huge upside when everything goes right, but a lot can easily go wrong. When you consider that this software, Tidepool, can literally affect peoples lives, it makes you really appreciate the level of effort and dedication that went into its development. Being the source of all data in which a diabetes patient makes their decisions is no small responsiblity. Reading about Tidepool prior to the talk, I was wondering what sort of development standards are set when developing a software of this caliber, as a small bug could result in a large emergency, or even death, to some users. Snider answered this when he talked about their circular sprint process, where they go through multiple cycles before releasing. One thing I would be/am concerned about regarding Tidepool is that it is indeed Open Source-meaning it could very well be susceptible to data leaks or hacks that could produce catastrophic disasters. But on the other hand, there’s a lot of good people to balance out the bad-which means more people to keep and eye not the code and find any ways to improve it and make it secure-this is the constant upside of open source, as we have learned throughout the semester. Overall, it was very inspirational to hear the history of the product and how they started out with a simple glucose pump which people ran some source code with. 

### Jarvis Updates and Challenges
This week, we had a lot of great progress with our Jarvis development. We haven't run into any challenges 'per se'. The group of maintainers have been very helpful and responsive to the issues and PRs that we have brought up. Infact, our first PR, which adds more installation instructions to the readMe, was just committed today. My groupmate and I looked into a certain feature called reboot, which reboots the entire computer (not the program). Looking at the source code, Amendo and I realized that for Linux and Windows, it asked for confirmation and a time at which to reboot, but for MacOS, it instantly did it once the password was typed in (or right away if given root). Even more, we realized that on windows, it asked us in how many minutes we would like to reboot, while in linux it was asked in how many seconds instead. Going back to macOs, Amendo and I made a change (locally) so that it asks for confirmation (via Y/N input) before it reboots the system. Furthermore, it would make sense to have the same logic for both Linux and Windows, as it makes more sense rather than asking for a certain time period. We are working with the maintainers to submit the PR and get it accepted. Aditionally, we got the goahead from the main maintainer to rename Reboot to RebootComputer, which is a clearer name. Overall, we are continuing to work on these bugs as well as exploring more APIs to add.
